<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE refentry PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.2-Based Variant V1.1//EN" "dtd/kdex.dtd" [
  <!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE"><!-- change language only here -->
]>

<refentry>

<refentryinfo>
<title>&kde; User's Manual</title>
<author>
<firstname>David</firstname>
<surname>Faure</surname>
<affiliation>
<address><email>faure@kde.org</email></address>
</affiliation>
</author>

<author>
<firstname>Waldo</firstname>
<surname>Bastian</surname>
<affiliation>
<address><email>bastian@kde.org</email></address>
</affiliation>
</author>

<date>2010-10-28</date>
<releaseinfo>&kde; 4.5</releaseinfo>

</refentryinfo>

<refmeta>
<refentrytitle><command>kded5</command></refentrytitle>
<manvolnum>8</manvolnum>
</refmeta>

<refnamediv>
<refname><command>kded5</command></refname>
<refpurpose>&kde; daemon - triggers Sycoca database updates when needed.</refpurpose>
</refnamediv>

<refsynopsisdiv>
<title>Synopsis</title>

<cmdsynopsis>
<command>kded5</command>

<arg choice="opt">--help</arg>
<arg choice="opt">Generic options</arg>
<arg choice="opt">Qt-options</arg>
<arg choice="opt">KDE-options</arg>
<arg choice="opt">--check</arg>
</cmdsynopsis>
</refsynopsisdiv>

<refsect1>
<title>Description</title>

<para><command>kded5</command> is responsible for creating the sycoca file, i.e. the binary cache of servicetypes, mimetypes, and services for a particular user.
</para>
<para>It monitors the directories containing .desktop files. When a file is added/removed, it waits 5 seconds (in case of a series of updates), and then launches <command>kbuildsycoca4</command> to update the sycoca.
</para>
<para>It checks newly installed update files, i.e. the *.upd files used to update configuration files of users when the configuration file formats changes. <command>kconf_update</command> is launched to do the updates.
</para>
<para>When the hostname changes, it will make the necessary changes to the KDE environment and X-server to allow continued proper operation, launching <command>kdontchangethehostname</command> to do the changes.
</para>
<para>Those tasks are also performed always at kded5 start to ensure that the user configuration is up to date.
</para>
<para>It is also responsible for launching the on-demand kded5 modules and init enabled kded5 modules like:
<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><option>Konqueror Browser Preloader</option></term>
<listitem><para>Reduces Konqueror startup time.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><option>Directory Watcher</option></term>
<listitem><para>Monitors directories for changes.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><option>Hardware Detection</option></term>
<listitem><para>Provides a user interface for hardware events.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><option>SSL Certificate Policy</option></term>
<listitem><para>Provides the user configured SSL certificate policy to applications.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><option>Network Proxy Configuration</option></term>
<listitem><para>Automatic proxy configuration.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><option>Password Caching</option></term>
<listitem><para>Temporary password caching, for example: so that a webpage with HTTP
authentication doesn't ask for your password for every link and every image in the page.
These passwords are forgotten when exiting KDE (unlike <command>KWallet</command>)</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><option>Sound Policy</option></term>
<listitem><para>Provides the sound system policy to applications.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><option>Favicons</option></term>
<listitem><para>Stores website icons.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><option>Display Management</option></term>
<listitem><para>Manages displays and video outputs.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><option>Cookie jar</option></term>
<listitem><para>Stores network cookies.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><option>Network Watcher</option></term>
<listitem><para>Keeps track of the network and updates directory listings of the <application>network:/</application> KIO slave.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><option>Subversion Module</option></term>
<listitem><para>Provides various subversion actions to filemanager and other software.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>Network Status</option></term>
<listitem><para>Tracks status of network interfaces and provides notifications for applications using the network.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><option>Write Daemon</option></term>
<listitem><para>Watches the messages from local users sent with <replaceable>write</replaceable>(1) or <replaceable>wall</replaceable>(1).</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><option>Notification area watcher</option></term>
<listitem><para>Keeps track of applications that want to use the D-Bus based notification area.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><option>KMixD</option></term>
<listitem><para>KMixD Mixer Service</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><option>Systemtray daemon</option></term>
<listitem><para>Keeps track of applications that want to use the D-Bus based system tray.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><option>Keyboard Daemon</option></term>
<listitem><para>Keeps track of keyboard changes (new keyboard, changed layout)</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><option>Remote URL Change Notifier</option></term>
<listitem>
<para>Provides change notifications for network folders</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><option>Activity Manager</option></term>
<listitem><para>The Nepomuk activities manager backend</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><option>Display Management change monitor</option></term>
<listitem><para>Notifies how the display has been rotated (where available)</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><option>Free Space Notifier</option></term>
<listitem><para>Warns when running out of space in your home folder.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><option>Removable Device Automounter</option></term>
<listitem><para>Automatically mounts devices as needed.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><option>Nepomuk Search Module</option></term>
<listitem><para>Helper module for KIO to ensure automatic updates of Nepomuk search listings.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><option>Power Management</option></term>
<listitem><para>Battery, Display and CPU power management and notifications.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><option>K Remote Control Daemon</option></term>
<listitem><para>Manages the Remote Control commands received</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><option>Status Notifier Manager</option></term>
<listitem><para>Manages services that provide status notifier user interfaces.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><option>DNS-SD Service Discovery Monitor</option></term>
<listitem><para>Monitors the network for DNS-SD services.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><option>Drive Ejector</option></term>
<listitem><para>Automatically unmounts and releases drives when their eject button is pushed.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><option>Time zone</option></term>
<listitem><para>Provides access to the system's time zones for applications.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><option>Input Actions</option></term>
<listitem><para>Input Actions service performing configured actions on key presses.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>
</para>

 <para>The init modules can be enabled/disabled using <command>systemsettings</command>, in System Administration > Startup and Shutdown > Service Manager.</para>

</refsect1>

<refsect1><title>Generic Options</title>
<!--<para>--><variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><option>--author</option></term>
<listitem>
<para>Show author information.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>--help</option></term>
<listitem>
<para>Show help about options.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>--help-all</option></term>
<listitem>
<para>Show all options.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>--help-kde</option></term>
<listitem>
<para>Show KDE specific options.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>--help-qt</option></term>
<listitem>
<para>Show Qt specific options.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>--license</option></term>
<listitem>
<para>Show license information.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-v</option> <option>--version</option></term>
<listitem>
<para>Show version information</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>
<!--</para>-->
</refsect1>

<refsect1>
<title>Application Options</title>
<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>--check</option></term>
<listitem>
<para>Check Sycoca database only once.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

</refsect1>

<refsect1>
<title>Usage</title>
<para>If <command>kded5</command> is called without parameters and is already running, it shows the message:
<screen>KDE Daemon (kded) already running.</screen>
</para>
<para>
If <command>kded5</command> is called with <command>kded5 --check</command>, then
it updates the &kde; sycoca using <command>kbuildsycoca4</command>.
</para>
</refsect1>

<refsect1>
<title>See Also</title>
<para><replaceable>kdeoptions</replaceable>(7), <replaceable>qtoptions</replaceable>(7),
<replaceable>kbuildsycoca4</replaceable>(8)
</para>
</refsect1>

<refsect1>
<title>Bugs</title>
<para>There are probably tons of bugs. Use <ulink url="http://bugs.kde.org">bugs.kde.org</ulink> to report them.</para>
</refsect1>

</refentry>
