<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE refentry PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.2-Based Variant V1.1//EN" "dtd/kdex.dtd" [
  <!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE"><!-- change language only here -->
]>

<refentry>

<refentryinfo>
<title>&kde; User's Manual</title>
<author>
<firstname>Waldo</firstname>
<surname>Bastian</surname>
<affiliation>
<address><email>bastian@kde.org</email></address>
</affiliation>
</author>

<author>
<firstname>Mario</firstname>
<surname>Weilguni</surname>
<affiliation>
<address><email>mweilguni@sime.com</email></address>
</affiliation>
</author>

<author>
<firstname>Lubos</firstname>
<surname>Lunak</surname>
<affiliation>
<address><email>l.lunak@kde.org</email></address>
</affiliation>
</author>

<date>2008-10-03</date>
<releaseinfo>0.01.01</releaseinfo>

</refentryinfo>

<refmeta>
<refentrytitle><command>kdeinit4</command></refentrytitle>
<manvolnum>8</manvolnum>
</refmeta>

<refnamediv>
<refname><command>kdeinit4</command></refname>
<refpurpose>Start all other &kde; programs and kdeinit loadable modules (KLMs).</refpurpose>
</refnamediv>

<refsynopsisdiv>
<title>Synopsis</title>

<cmdsynopsis>
<command>kdeinit4</command>

<arg choice="opt">--help</arg>
<group>
<arg>--no-fork</arg>
<arg>--no-kded</arg>
<arg>--suicide</arg>
</group>
<group>
<arg>+programs</arg>
<arg>programs</arg>
</group>
</cmdsynopsis>

</refsynopsisdiv>

<refsect1>
<title>Description</title>

<para>kdeinit4 is a process launcher somewhat similar to the
famous <command>init</command> used for booting UNIX. It executes &kde;
programs and kdeinit loadable modules (KLMs) starting them more efficiently.
</para>

<para>Using kdeinit4 to launch &kde; applications makes starting a typical
&kde; application a couple times faster and reduces memory consumption by
a substantial amount.</para>

<para>kdeinit4 is linked against all libraries a standard &kde; application
needs. With this technique, starting an application becomes much faster 
because now only the application itself needs to be linked whereas otherwise
both the application as well as all the libaries it uses need to be linked.
</para>

</refsect1>

<refsect1>
<title>Disadvantages</title>

<para>
The process name of applications started via kdeinit4
is "kdeinit4". This problem can be corrected to a degree by changing the
application name as shown by <command>ps</command>. However, applications
like <command>killall</command> will only see kdeinit4
as the process name. To workaround this, use <command>kdekillall</command>
(from kdesdk/scripts) for applications started via kdeinit4.
</para>

</refsect1>

<refsect1>
<title>Options</title>

<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>--help</option></term>
<listitem>
<para>
Show help about options
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>--no-fork</option></term>
<listitem>
<para>Do not fork, i.e. do not exit until all the executed programs ends</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>--no-kded</option></term>
<listitem>
<para>Do not start kded</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>--suicide</option></term>
<listitem>
<para>
Terminate when no KDE applications are left running
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>+programs</option></term>
<listitem>
<para>
runs the programs handling requests
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>programs</option></term>
<listitem>
<para>
runs the programs without handling requests
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

</refsect1>

<refsect1>
<title>Usage</title>
<para>
A standard way to run this program is by simply specifying the following
command at the prompt
<userinput><command>kdeinit4</command> program</userinput> or
<userinput><command>kdeinit4</command> +program
</userinput>
</para>

</refsect1>

<!--
<refsect1>
<title>Examples</title>
<para>
<userinput><command>kdeinit4</command> +kwrite</userinput>
</para>
</refsect1>
-->

<refsect1>
<title>Files</title>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><filename>/tmp/kde-$USER/kdeinit4_$INSTANCE</filename></term>
<listitem>
<para>...</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

</refsect1>

<refsect1>
<title>Environment Variables</title>
<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term>$<envar>HOME</envar></term>
<listitem>
<para>Specifies the home directory of the current user</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>$<envar>KDE_HOME_READONLY</envar></term>
<listitem>
<para>Specifies if the home directory of the current user is read only</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>$<envar>KDE_IS_PRELINKED</envar></term>
<listitem>
<para>If set, tells kdeinit4 that the &kde; programs are pre-linked.</para>
<para>(Prelinking is a process that allows you to speed up the process of dynamic linking.)</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>$<envar>KDE_DISPLAY</envar></term>
<listitem>
<para>If set, tells kdeinit4 that it is running on a &kde; desktop.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

</refsect1>

<refsect1>
<title>See Also</title>
<para>kded, kdekillall</para>
</refsect1>

<refsect1>
<title>Bugs</title>
<para>There are probably tons of bugs. Use <ulink url="http://bugs.kde.org">bugs.kde.org</ulink> to report them.</para>
</refsect1>

</refentry>



